# Lab 04

This labo is published [on Cyberlearn](https://cyberlearn.hes-so.ch/mod/assign/view.php?id=1968582).

## Task 0 - Set up the development environment on your machine

* The version of your compiler (JDK)

```
[INPUT]
//TODO

[OUTPUT]
//TODO
```

* The version of your run time environment (JRE)

```
[INPUT]
//TODO

[OUTPUT]
//TODO
```

* The version of your Maven

```
[INPUT]
//TODO

[OUTPUT]
//TODO
```

* The version of your Gcloud (CLI)

```
[INPUT]
//TODO

[OUTPUT]
//TODO
```

* Screenshot of your IntelliJ Plug-in Google Cloud Code version

```
//TODO
```

## Task 1 - Deployment of a simple web application

* Deliver the code to your repository

```
//TODO ([repo]/Labo04/Task01/<yourProject>
```

{% hint style="info" %}
Based on the result expected after the testing phase
{% endhint %}

* Screenshot showing your app running on App Engine

```
//TODO
```

* Screenshot of the Google App Engine Dashboard showing your requests (traffic)

```
//TODO
```

## Task 2 - Develop a Servlet that uses the datastore

* Deliver the code to your repository

```
//TODO ([repo]/Labo04/Task02/<yourProject>
```

* Screenshot of the local and the App Engine console with the DataStore Viewer

```
//TODO
```

* What does the sample code generated by the wizard do? Explain what you see in the **Java class files**, **web.xml**, **appengine-web.xml** and **index.jsp** files in a few sentences.

```
//TODO
```

## Task 3 - Test the performance of datastore writes

* For each performance test copy a screenshot of the JMeter **Graph Results** listener and the App Engine **Dashboard** view into the report.

```
//TODO
```

* What response times do you observe in the test tool for each Servlet?

```
//TODO
```

* Compare the response times shown by the test tool and the App Engine console. Explain the difference

```
//TODO
```

* How many resources have you used to run these tests? From the **Quota Details** view of the console determine the non-zero resource quotas (**Daily quota** different from 0%). Explain each with a sentence. To get a sense of everything measured, click on **Show resources not in use**.

```
//TODO
```

* Suppose you become suspicious that the algorithm for the automatic scaling of instances is not working correctly. Imagine a way in which the algorithm could be broken. Which measures shown in the console would you use to detect this failure?

```
//TODO
```

